and the Lord spoke
and the Lord spoke on Mount Sinai speak to the children of
on Mount Sinai speak to the children of
on Mount Sinai speak to the children of Israel and say to them when you come
Israel and say to them when you come
Israel and say to them when you come into the land which I give you then the
into the land which I give you then the
into the land which I give you then the land shall keep a Sabbath to the Lord
land shall keep a Sabbath to the Lord
land shall keep a Sabbath to the Lord six years you shall sow your field and
six years you shall sow your field and
six years you shall sow your field and six years you shall prune your vineyard
six years you shall prune your vineyard
six years you shall prune your vineyard and gather its fruit but in the seventh
and gather its fruit but in the seventh
and gather its fruit but in the seventh year there shall be a Sabbath of solemn
year there shall be a Sabbath of solemn
year there shall be a Sabbath of solemn rest for the land a Sabbath to the Lord
rest for the land a Sabbath to the Lord
rest for the land a Sabbath to the Lord you shall neither sow your field nor
you shall neither sow your field nor
you shall neither sow your field nor prune your vineyard what grows of its
prune your vineyard what grows of its
prune your vineyard what grows of its own accord of your harvest you shall not
own accord of your harvest you shall not
own accord of your harvest you shall not reap nor gather the grapes of your
reap nor gather the grapes of your
reap nor gather the grapes of your untended vine for it is a year of rest
untended vine for it is a year of rest
untended vine for it is a year of rest for the land and the Sabbath produce of
for the land and the Sabbath produce of
for the land and the Sabbath produce of the land shall be food for you for you
the land shall be food for you for you
the land shall be food for you for you your male and female servants your hired
your male and female servants your hired
your male and female servants your hired man and the stranger who dwells with you
man and the stranger who dwells with you
man and the stranger who dwells with you for your livestock and the beasts that
for your livestock and the beasts that
for your livestock and the beasts that are in your land all its produce shall
are in your land all its produce shall
are in your land all its produce shall be for food and you shall count
be for food and you shall count
be for food and you shall count 7/7 of years for yourself seven times
7/7 of years for yourself seven times
7/7 of years for yourself seven times seven years and the time of the seven
seven years and the time of the seven
seven years and the time of the seven Sabbath's of years shall be to you 49
Sabbath's of years shall be to you 49
Sabbath's of years shall be to you 49 years
years
years then you shall cause the trumpet of the
then you shall cause the trumpet of the
then you shall cause the trumpet of the Jubilee to sound on the tenth day of the
Jubilee to sound on the tenth day of the
Jubilee to sound on the tenth day of the seventh month on the day of atonement
seventh month on the day of atonement
seventh month on the day of atonement you shall make the trumpet to sound
you shall make the trumpet to sound
you shall make the trumpet to sound throughout all your land and you shall
throughout all your land and you shall
throughout all your land and you shall consecrate the fiftieth year and
consecrate the fiftieth year and
consecrate the fiftieth year and proclaim Liberty throughout all the land
proclaim Liberty throughout all the land
proclaim Liberty throughout all the land to all its inhabitants it shall be a
to all its inhabitants it shall be a
to all its inhabitants it shall be a jubilee for you and each of you shall
jubilee for you and each of you shall
jubilee for you and each of you shall return to his possession
return to his possession
return to his possession and each of you shall return to his
and each of you shall return to his
and each of you shall return to his family that fiftieth year shall be a
family that fiftieth year shall be a
family that fiftieth year shall be a jubilee to you in it you shall neither
jubilee to you in it you shall neither
jubilee to you in it you shall neither sow nor reap what grows of its own
sow nor reap what grows of its own
sow nor reap what grows of its own accord nor gather the grapes of your
accord nor gather the grapes of your
accord nor gather the grapes of your untended vine for it is the Jubilee it
untended vine for it is the Jubilee it
untended vine for it is the Jubilee it shall be a holy to you you shall eat its
shall be a holy to you you shall eat its
shall be a holy to you you shall eat its produce from the field in this year of
produce from the field in this year of
produce from the field in this year of Jubilee each of you shall return to his
Jubilee each of you shall return to his
Jubilee each of you shall return to his possession and if you sell anything to
possession and if you sell anything to
possession and if you sell anything to your neighbor or buy from your
your neighbor or buy from your
your neighbor or buy from your neighbor's hand you shall not oppress
neighbor's hand you shall not oppress
neighbor's hand you shall not oppress one another according to the number of
one another according to the number of
one another according to the number of years after the Jubilee you shall buy
years after the Jubilee you shall buy
years after the Jubilee you shall buy from your neighbor and according to the
from your neighbor and according to the
from your neighbor and according to the number of years of crops he shall sell
number of years of crops he shall sell
number of years of crops he shall sell to you according to the multitude of
to you according to the multitude of
to you according to the multitude of years you shall increase its price and
years you shall increase its price and
years you shall increase its price and according to the fewer number of years
according to the fewer number of years
according to the fewer number of years you shall diminish its price for he
you shall diminish its price for he
you shall diminish its price for he sells to you according to the number of
sells to you according to the number of
sells to you according to the number of the years of the crops therefore you
the years of the crops therefore you
the years of the crops therefore you shall not oppress one another but you
shall not oppress one another but you
shall not oppress one another but you shall fear your God for I am the Lord
shall fear your God for I am the Lord
shall fear your God for I am the Lord your God so you shall observe my
your God so you shall observe my
your God so you shall observe my statutes and keep my judgments and
statutes and keep my judgments and
statutes and keep my judgments and perform them and you will dwell in the
perform them and you will dwell in the
perform them and you will dwell in the land in safety then the land will yield
land in safety then the land will yield
land in safety then the land will yield its fruit and you will eat your fill and
its fruit and you will eat your fill and
its fruit and you will eat your fill and dwell there in safety and if you say
dwell there in safety and if you say
dwell there in safety and if you say what shall we eat in the seventh year
what shall we eat in the seventh year
what shall we eat in the seventh year since we shall not sow nor gather in our
since we shall not sow nor gather in our
since we shall not sow nor gather in our produce
produce
produce then I will command my blessing on you
then I will command my blessing on you
then I will command my blessing on you in the sixth year and it will bring
in the sixth year and it will bring
in the sixth year and it will bring forth produce enough for three years and
forth produce enough for three years and
forth produce enough for three years and you shall sow in the eighth year and eat
you shall sow in the eighth year and eat
you shall sow in the eighth year and eat old produce until the ninth year until
old produce until the ninth year until
old produce until the ninth year until its produce comes in you shall eat of
its produce comes in you shall eat of
its produce comes in you shall eat of the old harvest the land shall not be
the old harvest the land shall not be
the old harvest the land shall not be sold permanently for the land is mined
sold permanently for the land is mined
sold permanently for the land is mined for you are strangers and sojourners
for you are strangers and sojourners
for you are strangers and sojourners with me and in all the land of your
with me and in all the land of your
with me and in all the land of your possession you shall grant Redemption of
possession you shall grant Redemption of
possession you shall grant Redemption of the land if one of your brethren becomes
the land if one of your brethren becomes
the land if one of your brethren becomes poor and has sold some of his possession
poor and has sold some of his possession
poor and has sold some of his possession and if his redeeming relative comes to
and if his redeeming relative comes to
and if his redeeming relative comes to redeem it then he may redeem what his
redeem it then he may redeem what his
redeem it then he may redeem what his brother sold or if the man has no one to
brother sold or if the man has no one to
brother sold or if the man has no one to redeem it but he himself becomes able to
redeem it but he himself becomes able to
redeem it but he himself becomes able to redeem it then let him count the years
redeem it then let him count the years
redeem it then let him count the years since its sale and restore the remainder
since its sale and restore the remainder
since its sale and restore the remainder to the man to whom he sold it that he
to the man to whom he sold it that he
to the man to whom he sold it that he may return to his possession but if he
may return to his possession but if he
may return to his possession but if he is not able to have it restored to
is not able to have it restored to
is not able to have it restored to himself then what was sold shall remain
himself then what was sold shall remain
himself then what was sold shall remain in the hand of him who bought it until
in the hand of him who bought it until
in the hand of him who bought it until the year of Jubilee and in the Jubilee
the year of Jubilee and in the Jubilee
the year of Jubilee and in the Jubilee it shall be released and he shall return
it shall be released and he shall return
it shall be released and he shall return to his possession if a man sells a house
to his possession if a man sells a house
to his possession if a man sells a house in a walled city then he may redeem it
in a walled city then he may redeem it
in a walled city then he may redeem it within a whole year after it is sold
within a whole year after it is sold
within a whole year after it is sold within a full year he may redeem it but
within a full year he may redeem it but
within a full year he may redeem it but if it is not redeemed within the space
if it is not redeemed within the space
if it is not redeemed within the space of a full year then the house in the
of a full year then the house in the
of a full year then the house in the walled city shall belong permanently to
walled city shall belong permanently to
walled city shall belong permanently to him who bought it throughout his
him who bought it throughout his
him who bought it throughout his generations it shall not be released in
generations it shall not be released in
generations it shall not be released in the Jubilee
the Jubilee
the Jubilee however the houses of villages which
however the houses of villages which
however the houses of villages which have no wall around them shall be
have no wall around them shall be
have no wall around them shall be counted as the fields of the country
counted as the fields of the country
counted as the fields of the country they may be redeemed and they shall be
they may be redeemed and they shall be
they may be redeemed and they shall be released in the jubilee nevertheless the
released in the jubilee nevertheless the
released in the jubilee nevertheless the cities of the Levites and the houses in
cities of the Levites and the houses in
cities of the Levites and the houses in the cities of their possession the
the cities of their possession the
the cities of their possession the Levites may redeem at any time and if a
Levites may redeem at any time and if a
Levites may redeem at any time and if a man purchases a house from the Levites
man purchases a house from the Levites
man purchases a house from the Levites then the house that was sold in the city
then the house that was sold in the city
then the house that was sold in the city of his possession shall be released in
of his possession shall be released in
of his possession shall be released in the Jubilee for the houses in the cities
the Jubilee for the houses in the cities
the Jubilee for the houses in the cities of the Levites are there possession
of the Levites are there possession
of the Levites are there possession among the children of Israel but the
among the children of Israel but the
among the children of Israel but the field of the common land of their cities
field of the common land of their cities
field of the common land of their cities may not be sold for it is their
may not be sold for it is their
may not be sold for it is their perpetual possession if one of your
perpetual possession if one of your
perpetual possession if one of your brethren becomes poor and falls into
brethren becomes poor and falls into
brethren becomes poor and falls into poverty among you then you shall help
poverty among you then you shall help
poverty among you then you shall help him like a stranger or a sojourner that
him like a stranger or a sojourner that
him like a stranger or a sojourner that he may live with you take no usury or
he may live with you take no usury or
he may live with you take no usury or interest from him but fear your God that
interest from him but fear your God that
interest from him but fear your God that your brother may live with you you shall
your brother may live with you you shall
your brother may live with you you shall not lend him your money for usury no
not lend him your money for usury no
not lend him your money for usury no lend him your food at a profit I am the
lend him your food at a profit I am the
lend him your food at a profit I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the
Lord your God who brought you out of the
Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt to give you the land of
land of Egypt to give you the land of
land of Egypt to give you the land of Canaan and to be your God and if one of
Canaan and to be your God and if one of
Canaan and to be your God and if one of your brethren who dwells by you becomes
your brethren who dwells by you becomes
your brethren who dwells by you becomes poor and sells himself to you you shall
poor and sells himself to you you shall
poor and sells himself to you you shall not compel him to serve as a slave as a
not compel him to serve as a slave as a
not compel him to serve as a slave as a hired servant and a sojourner he shall
hired servant and a sojourner he shall
hired servant and a sojourner he shall be with you and shall serve you until
be with you and shall serve you until
be with you and shall serve you until the year of Jubilee and then he shall
the year of Jubilee and then he shall
the year of Jubilee and then he shall depart from you he and his children with
depart from you he and his children with
depart from you he and his children with him and shall return to his own family
him and shall return to his own family
him and shall return to his own family he shall return to the possession of his
he shall return to the possession of his
he shall return to the possession of his father's for they are my servants whom I
father's for they are my servants whom I
father's for they are my servants whom I brought out of the land of Egypt they
brought out of the land of Egypt they
brought out of the land of Egypt they shall not be sold
shall not be sold
shall not be sold slaves you shall not rule over him with
slaves you shall not rule over him with
slaves you shall not rule over him with rigor but you shall fear your God and as
rigor but you shall fear your God and as
rigor but you shall fear your God and as for your male and female slaves whom you
for your male and female slaves whom you
for your male and female slaves whom you may have from the nations that are
may have from the nations that are
may have from the nations that are around you from them you may buy male
around you from them you may buy male
around you from them you may buy male and female slaves moreover you may buy
and female slaves moreover you may buy
and female slaves moreover you may buy the children of the strangers who dwell
the children of the strangers who dwell
the children of the strangers who dwell among you and their families who are
among you and their families who are
among you and their families who are with you which they beget in your land
with you which they beget in your land
with you which they beget in your land and they shall become your property and
and they shall become your property and
and they shall become your property and you may take them as an inheritance for
you may take them as an inheritance for
you may take them as an inheritance for your children after you to inherit them
your children after you to inherit them
your children after you to inherit them as a possession they shall be your
as a possession they shall be your
as a possession they shall be your permanent slaves but regarding your
permanent slaves but regarding your
permanent slaves but regarding your brethren the children of Israel you
brethren the children of Israel you
brethren the children of Israel you shall not rule over one another with
shall not rule over one another with
shall not rule over one another with rigor now if a sojourner or stranger
rigor now if a sojourner or stranger
rigor now if a sojourner or stranger close to you becomes rich and one of
close to you becomes rich and one of
close to you becomes rich and one of your brethren who dwells by him becomes
your brethren who dwells by him becomes
your brethren who dwells by him becomes poor and sells himself to the stranger
poor and sells himself to the stranger
poor and sells himself to the stranger or sojourn are close to you or to a
or sojourn are close to you or to a
or sojourn are close to you or to a member of the strangers family after he
member of the strangers family after he
member of the strangers family after he is sold
is sold
is sold he may be redeemed again
he may be redeemed again
he may be redeemed again one of his brothers may redeem him or
one of his brothers may redeem him or
one of his brothers may redeem him or his uncle or his uncle son may redeem
his uncle or his uncle son may redeem
his uncle or his uncle son may redeem him or anyone who is near of kin to him
him or anyone who is near of kin to him
him or anyone who is near of kin to him in his family may redeem him or if he is
in his family may redeem him or if he is
in his family may redeem him or if he is able he may redeem himself thus he shall
able he may redeem himself thus he shall
able he may redeem himself thus he shall reckon with him who bought him the price
reckon with him who bought him the price
reckon with him who bought him the price of his release shall be according to the
of his release shall be according to the
of his release shall be according to the number of years from the year that he
number of years from the year that he
number of years from the year that he was sold to him until the year of
was sold to him until the year of
was sold to him until the year of Jubilee it shall be according to the
Jubilee it shall be according to the
Jubilee it shall be according to the time of a hired servant for him if there
time of a hired servant for him if there
time of a hired servant for him if there are still many years remaining according
are still many years remaining according
are still many years remaining according to them he shall repay the price of his
to them he shall repay the price of his
to them he shall repay the price of his Redemption from the money with which he
Redemption from the money with which he
Redemption from the money with which he was bought and if there remain but a few
was bought and if there remain but a few
was bought and if there remain but a few years until the year of Jubilee then he
years until the year of Jubilee then he
years until the year of Jubilee then he shall reckon with him and according to
shall reckon with him and according to
shall reckon with him and according to his years he shall repay him the price
his years he shall repay him the price
his years he shall repay him the price of his Redemption he shall be with him
of his Redemption he shall be with him
of his Redemption he shall be with him as a yearly hired servant and he shall
as a yearly hired servant and he shall
as a yearly hired servant and he shall not rule with rigour over him in your
not rule with rigour over him in your
not rule with rigour over him in your sight and if he is not redeemed in these
sight and if he is not redeemed in these
sight and if he is not redeemed in these years then he shall be released in the
years then he shall be released in the
years then he shall be released in the year of Jubilee he and his children with
year of Jubilee he and his children with
year of Jubilee he and his children with him for the children of Israel are
him for the children of Israel are
him for the children of Israel are servants to me they are my servants whom
servants to me they are my servants whom
servants to me they are my servants whom I brought out of the land of Egypt I am
I brought out of the land of Egypt I am
I brought out of the land of Egypt I am the Lord your God
the Lord your God
the Lord your God [Music]
[Music]
[Music] you